[CORE-10886] Docs for nested BGP peering. (#1968)
tigera/docs: calico/networking/configuring/bgp-to-workload.mdx

---
description: Configure BGP peering with nested clusters running on KubeVirt VMs
---

# Configure BGP peering with nested clusters running on KubeVirt VMs

## Big picture

Configure BGP peering with $[prodname] nodes running on KubeVirt VMs that are
running on your Kubernetes cluster.

## Value

Run nested Kubernetes clusters in VMs on your parent Kubernetes cluster.
Avoid network overlay overheads; extend layer 3 network reachability all the
way from pods running in the nested cluster to your physical network
infrastructure.

## Concepts

This guide assumes you have a good understanding of BGP and $[prodname]'s BGP
peering options.

The guide makes use of several $[prodname] resources, including:

- [BGPPeer](../../reference/resources/bgppeer.mdx) - Used to configure peerings
  both with external BGP routers and with BGP-enabled workloads.
- [BGPFilter](../../reference/resources/bgpfilter.mdx) - Defines a BGP filter
  to control which routes are imported or exported between BGP peers.
- [BGPConfiguration](../../reference/resources/bgpconfig.mdx) - Configures global
  BGP settings for the cluster.

> The [BGP Guide](./bgp.mdx) provides a general overview of these concepts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [Configure BGP peering](./bgp.mdx) for a general overview of these concepts.
```

## Supported BGP topologies

Both parent and nested clusters must be configured to use non-overlay BGP
networking.

eBGP must be used both for peering between parent cluster and top-of-rack
router and for peering between parent cluster and nested workload cluster.

> Each of the ToR, parent cluster, and nested cluster must have a unique AS number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each of the ToR, parent cluster, and nested cluster must have a unique AS number.
```
Not quite sure what 'each' is modifying. All of the ToRs, clusters? Something else?

iBGP peerings to workloads or ToR routers are not supported:

- iBGP to the ToR router is not supported because there is currently no way to
  configure "next hop self" behaviour on that peering (so the ToR would receive
  the nested cluster's routes with the workload's IP as next hop, rather than
  the parent cluster node's IP).

> - iBGP to the nested cluster has not been tested. It may work with appropriate

Reviewer 2: Is it worth mentioning this and risk giving the reader false hope in the case where it doesnt work?

Author: I'm not sure; I wanted to say something more than "iBGP is not supported" because users will try it and, if it seems to work, then we're in the grey area anyway.

  `BGPFilter`s to ensure the correct routes are re-advertised.

Peering with workloads and using a BGP mesh within the cluster is not supported;
this combination has not been tested and it is likely to require additional
`BGPFilter`s to ensure routes are correctly re-advertised.

## Supported KubeVirt networking modes

Only KubeVirt's "bridged" networking mode is supported. This is because the
peering from parent cluster to the workload is done using the "pod IP" of the
workload.  This must agree with the IP that the workload itself uses to
source traffic.

> ## Before you begin...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Before you begin
```

Ensure you can access `projectcalico.org/v3` resources, either by installing the
$[prodname] [API server](../../operations/install-apiserver.mdx) (which makes
them available through `kubectl`), or by using [calicoctl](../../operations/calicoctl/install.mdx).

## How to

- [Configure global BGP settings](#configure-global-bgp-settings)
- [Create BGPFilter resources](#configure-bgpfilter-resources)
- [Configure parent cluster BGP topology](#configure-parent-cluster-bgp-topology)
- [Configure BGP peering with workloads](#configure-bgp-peering-with-workloads)
- [Configure more than one nested cluster](#configure-more-than-one-nested-cluster)

### Configure global BGP settings

In order to ease configuration of the `BGPPeer` resources in the nested clusters,
the workload BGP peering feature uses a single virtual IP (per IP version) that
is provisioned on every node in the parent cluster. The workloads are configured
to peer with this virtual IP rather than needing to know the specific IP of their
parent node.

To avoid conflicts with your network, the addresses are configurable through

> the `BGPConfiguration` resource and there are no defaults. They must be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `BGPConfiguration` resource, and there are no defaults. They must be
```

> configured to enable the feature:

Reviewer: I'm not entirely sure that a list is useful here. Consider formatting as paragraphs.

- For IPv4, we recommend using a link-local IP address that is not otherwise
  in use on the parent cluster's network. Note that $[prodname] uses

>   `169.254.0.1` and `169.254.0.2` internally so these must not be used. You may also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  169.254.0.1 and 169.254.0.2 internally so these must not be used. You may also
```
Normal formatting, unless we're talking about specific input in code. Applies globally.

  wish to avoid cloud provider metadata addresses, such as `169.254.169.254`
  (as used by AWS). In this guide we'll use `169.254.0.179`; you can use the same
  address unless it conflicts with some other use on your nodes.

- If using the IPv6 address, you _must not_ use a link local address (because
  IPv6 requires link-local addresses to be qualified with a scope tag, and $[prodname]

>   currently ahs no way to provision the correct scopes). Instead, we recommend

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  currently has no way to provision the correct scopes). Instead, we recommend
```

  using a ULA address that is not otherwise in use in your network. In this
  guide we'll use `fdc9:9723:09bc::1`(which was chosen randomly according to
  RFC 4193 for this guide, so it may be suitable for your use as well).

> Once you have chosen the IP address(es), configure the BGPConfiguration resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have chosen the IP address(es), configure the `BGPConfiguration` resource.
```

(You can omit the IPv6 address if not using IPv6.)

```yaml
apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
kind: BGPConfiguration
metadata:
 name: default
spec:
  ...
  localWorkloadPeeringIPV4: "169.254.0.179"
  localWorkloadPeeringIPV6: "fdc9:9723:09bc::1"
```

> ### Create BGPFilter resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create `BGPFilter` resources
```

> Before creating the BGPPeer to peer with the workloads, we create

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before creating the `BGPPeer` resource to peer with the workloads, we create
```
Or, generically, "BGP peer".

`BGPFilter` resources to control which routes are imported and exported.

- Because the workloads are running on the $[prodname] cluster, we can assume that
  they already have a valid default route via their host node. Hence, we don't

>   need to export any routes to the workloads. Create the following `BGPFilter`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  need to export any routes to the workloads. Create the following `BGPFilter` resource,
```

  which can be used to block export of any routes.

  ```yaml
  apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
  kind: BGPFilter
  metadata:
    name: no-export
  spec:
    exportV4:
      - action: Reject
    exportV6:
      - action: Reject
  ```

- For added security, it is also wise to limit what routes we'll accept from

>   the workloads. Create a `BGPFilter` that only accepts routes that are within

Reviewer: Again, either modify a noun with the code name (`BGPFilter` resource), or describe the actual thing (BGP filter).

>   the workloads. Create a `BGPFilter` that only accepts routes that are within

Reviewer: Again, either modify a noun with the code name (`BGPFilter` resource), or describe the actual thing (BGP filter). Same idea throughout the doc.

- The `localWorkloadSelector` field is used to select which workloads to peer with.
  In this example, we select workloads with the label `color=red`.

- Include the `BGPFilter` resources defined above in the `BGPPeer` to control
  which routes are imported and exported.

```yaml
apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
kind: BGPPeer
metadata:
 name: peer-to-workloads
spec:
 localWorkloadSelector: color == 'red'
 asNumber: <workload cluster's AS number>
 filters:
 - no-export
 - accept-nested-ip-pools
```

Both per-node and global `BGPPeer` resources are supported. To limit the peering to certain nodes, use the `nodeSelector` field.

:::note

`localWorkloadSelector` is scoped to all workloads and it does not currently have a corresponding
"namespace selector". To match on namespace labels, you can prefix the label name with `pcns.`.

:::

In the child cluster,

- Ensure that the node-to-node mesh is disabled in the `BGPConfiguration` and
  that the workload cluster's AS number is set:

  ```yaml
  apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
  kind: BGPConfiguration
  metadata:
   name: default
  spec:
   nodeToNodeMeshEnabled: false
   asNumber: <workload cluster's AS number>
  ```

> - Create a `BGPPeer`(s) that peer with the parent clusters' virtual IP(s):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In the chid cluster(s), create a `BGPPeer`(s) that peers with the parent cluster's virtual IP(s):
```

Author: `In the chid cluster` is in the para before the bullets but I'll reword this because it's unclear.  Thanks
